The term heart disease refers to several types of heart conditions.

A type of disease that affects the heart or blood vessels.
The risk of certain heart diseases may be increased by smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, unhealthy diet, lack of exercise, and obesity.
The most common heart disease is coronary artery disease (narrow or blocked coronary arteries), which can lead to chest pain, heart attacks, or stroke. Other heart diseases include congestive heart failure, heart rhythm problems, congenital heart disease (heart disease at birth), and endocarditis (inflamed inner layer of the heart). Also called cardiovascular disease.

A buildup of fatty plaques in your arteries, or atherosclerosis (ath-ur-o-skluh-ROE-sis) can damage your blood vessels and heart. Plaque buildup causes narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke.

Coronary artery disease symptoms may be different for men and women.
For instance, men are more likely to have chest pain. 
Women are more likely to have other signs and symptoms along with chest discomfort, such as shortness of breath, nausea and extreme fatigue.

Signs and symptoms can include Chest pain, chest tightness, chest pressure and chest discomfort (angina), Shortness of breath
Pain, numbness, weakness or coldness in your legs or arms if the blood vessels in those parts of your body are narrowed
Pain in the neck, jaw, throat, upper abdomen or back.

Heart disease symptoms caused by heart infection:
Endocarditis is an infection that affects the inner lining of your heart chambers and heart valves (endocardium). Heart infection signs and symptoms can include:

Fever
Stress
Shortness of breath
Weakness or fatigue
Changes in your heart rhythm
Dry or persistent cough
Skin rashes or unusual spots
Breathlessness with activity or at rest
Swelling of the legs, ankles and feet
Fatigue
Irregular heartbeats that feel rapid, pounding or fluttering
Dizziness, lightheadedness and fainting
Drug abuse

