Also known as: Sickle cell anemia

An inherited blood disorder where red blood cells (RBCs) become sickle or crescent shaped. It causes frequent infections, swelling in the hands and legs, pain, severe tiredness, and delayed growth or puberty.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders. Red blood cells contain hemoglobin, a protein that carries oxygen.
Healthy red blood cells are round, and they move through small blood vessels to carry oxygen to all parts of the body.
In someone who has SCD, the hemoglobin is abnormal, which causes the red blood cells to become hard and sticky and look like a C-shaped farm tool called a "sickle". The sickle cells die early, which causes a constant shortage of red blood cells. Also, when they travel through small blood vessels, they get stuck and clog the blood flow. 
This can cause pain and other serious complications (health problems) such as infection, acute chest syndrome and stroke.

Symptoms:
Anemia or decreased number of RBCs and oxygen.
Irritability or fussiness in babies.
Severe fatigue or tiredness.
Frequent episodes of pain, also known as crises, in different parts of the body.
Swelling of hands and feet, associated with pain.
Frequent infections.
Delayed growth noted in children and adults.
Vision problems.

Causes:
Sickle cell anemia is caused by a change in genes that are involved in producing hemoglobin, an iron-rich compound found in RBCs.
This condition is inherited from parents.
Both parents must pass on the defective form of the gene for the child to get affected.

Complications:
If untreated for a prolonged period it may lead to
Stroke
Acute chest syndrome, a life threatening complication
Pulmonary hypertension or high blood pressure in lungs
Damage to several organs including kidneys, liver, and spleen due to reduced blood supply
Blindness
Sores or ulcers in the legs
Gallstones
Priapism or painful, long-lasting erections noted in men with sickle cell anemia
Osteoporosis